feat(datalayer): extend file-discovery to support cluster endpoints (#1927)
llm-d/llm-d-inference-scheduler: pkg/epp/framework/plugins/datalayer/discovery/file/README.md

endpoints:
  - name: <string>              # required -- unique within the file
    namespace: <string>         # optional -- defaults to "default"
    address: <string>           # required -- IPv4 address or RFC 1123 hostname
    port: <string>              # required -- integer 1-65535 as a string

>     metricsPort: <string>       # optional -- metrics scrape port (defaults to port)

Reviewer: is this value reflected into the datalayer's metrics collection?
An alternative path might be to define a new data source to scrape remote endpoints by providing a label/tag with the hostname:port.
I think that the current endpoints assume an inference server and you are scraping remote clusters (EPPs, I presume?), so the use of the current metrics data source and extractors seem at odds with your design/goal.

Author: Yes, `metricsPort` feeds into `MetricsHost` which the metrics scraper uses to connect. You're right that the current core-metrics-extractor assumes vLLM-format metrics - that's why a spoke-epp engine type is being added in [PR #1928](https://github.com/llm-d/llm-d-router/pull/1928) to handle the different metric format from spoke EPPs. This PR only adds discovery support; it intentionally does not modify the metrics extraction logic.

Reviewer: Thanks for confirming.
I would prefer we don't overload the engine type for this but instead define a new Extractor for EPP metrics (which are **not** the same as inference engine metrics). You are essentially extracting different metrics from different objects for slightly different use cases and the overload can be confusing (e.g., introduce logic into existing components to separate server and cluster instead of just creating a different extractor for cluster).
Left comments on #1928 with more detail.

Reviewer 2: I agree with @elevran , les put the extra effort in here to make this feel more native and idiomatic.

    labels:                     # optional -- arbitrary key/value labels
      <key>: <value>
```

When `address` is an IPv4, the endpoint is treated as a pod (`PodName` is set
to the entry name). When `address` is a hostname, the endpoint is treated as a

> cluster (`PodName` is empty), enabling multi-cluster hub mode.

Reviewer: Q: how is the podName fields used? What's the downside of setting it non-empty?

Author: PodName is used in three places:

1. `datastore.PodDelete()` - matches endpoints by PodName to delete them on pod lifecycle events. If we set PodName non-empty for cluster entries, a pod deletion event with a coincidentally matching name would accidentally remove a cluster endpoint from the datastore.
2. `metrics.go` - used as a Prometheus label on schedulerAttemptsTotal. Blank means the label is empty for cluster entries, which is cosmetic.
3. `mmcacheaffinity` scorer - used for debug logging only.

Setting it empty is intentional: it prevents `PodDelete` from accidentally matching cluster endpoints, and it's semantically correct since these entries represent clusters, not pods.

Reviewer: IIUC, PodDelete is called from the reconciler and the EPP enables only one endpoint discovery mechanism at a time - either file based or k8s reconcilation, but not both.

    port: "8000"
```

> A cluster endpoints file for multi-cluster hub mode:

Reviewer: nit: is multicluster the only mode where hostnames are used?
```suggestion
A cluster endpoints file with host names instead of IP addresses:
```
